# Constraints on erosion law

When compared to fluvial erosion, glacial erosion appears, where it is active, i.e., in the vicinity of the ELA, to be less influenced by bedrock lithology. This has led to the believe (justifiably or not) that glacial erosion is dependent on less parameters/factors than fluvial erosion. This should imply that the glacial erosion parameters, $K_g$ and $l$ in equation {eq}`glacial` take more universal values than their fluvial counterparts.

This is apparently further jusitified by two independent studies that were published more or less concommitantly. The first {cite:p}`Koppes2015Nature` compiled erosion rates (using eroded sediment volumes) from a large number of glaciers at different latitudes and compared them to various estimates of glacial sliding velocities. They came up with values of $10^{-4}$ and 1 for $K_g$ and $l$, respectively. The second {cite:p}`Herman2015Science` uses estimates of erosion rates derived from the degree of graphitisation of Carbon in sediments collected in a river flowing off a small glacier in the Southern Alps of New Zeland. These allow to reconstruct where and how fast rocks are eroded beneath the glacier. Using estimates of glacier velocity from repeated satellite imagery, they were able to constrain the erosion law and came up with values of $10^{-4}$ and 1 for $K_g$ and $l$, respectively. The data also suggested anther possible combination of model parameters, i.e., $2.7\times 10^{-7}$ (m/yr)$^{1-l}$ and 2, for $K_g$ and $l$, respectively.

The close match between the two estimates (for $l=1$) as well as the range of environments and glacier size that these two studies considered is clearly a strong argument for the existence of a "global" or "generic" glacial erosion law that can be used in numerical models.